README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# 🚀 Andersson David Sánchez Méndez

### Full-Stack Developer & Systems Engineering Student

[![Portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/🌐_Portfolio-Live-blue?style=for-the-badge)](https://anderssonprogramming.github.io)
[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Connect-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/andersson-david-sánchez-méndez-676b72194)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-Follow-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/AnderssonProgramming)

<br/>

<a href="https://git.io/typing-svg"><img src="https://readme-typing-svg.demolab.com?font=Fira+Code&weight=600&size=22&duration=3000&pause=1000&color=3B82F6&center=true&vCenter=true&random=false&width=600&lines=NASA+Space+Apps+Global+Finalist;Full-Stack+Developer;Machine+Learning+Enthusiast" alt="Typing SVG" /></a>

<br/>

![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=flat-square&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=flat-square&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=flat-square&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-646CFF?style=flat-square&logo=vite&logoColor=white)
![Framer Motion](https://img.shields.io/badge/Framer_Motion-0055FF?style=flat-square&logo=framer&logoColor=white)

</div>

---

## ✨ About This Project

This is my **professional portfolio website** — a modern, responsive, and bilingual (Spanish/English) single-page application showcasing my skills, projects, and professional experience. Built with cutting-edge technologies and designed with a sleek, dark theme inspired by industry leaders like Vercel and Netflix.

<div align="center">

### 🏆 Key Highlights

| 🎯 Feature | 📝 Description |
|:---:|:---|
| 🌍 **Bilingual** | Full Spanish/English support with language persistence |
| 📱 **Responsive** | Pixel-perfect on all devices (mobile, tablet, desktop) |
| ⚡ **Fast** | Optimized with Vite for lightning-fast performance |
| 🎨 **Animated** | Smooth animations powered by Framer Motion |
| 📄 **PDF Export** | Professional CV with print-ready styling |
| 🌙 **Dark Theme** | Modern dark UI with gradient accents |

</div>

---

## 🖼️ Preview

<div align="center">

### 🏠 Home Page
*Hero section with gradient text, animated badge, and call-to-action buttons*

### 📋 CV Page  
*Professional two-column CV layout with print/PDF functionality*

### 🌐 Language Selector
*Elegant dropdown with flags for seamless language switching*

</div>

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

<div align="center">

### Frontend
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React_19-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS_4-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)

### Build & Tooling
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite_7-646CFF?style=for-the-badge&logo=vite&logoColor=white)
![ESLint](https://img.shields.io/badge/ESLint-4B32C3?style=for-the-badge&logo=eslint&logoColor=white)

### Libraries
![React Router](https://img.shields.io/badge/React_Router-CA4245?style=for-the-badge&logo=react-router&logoColor=white)
![Framer Motion](https://img.shields.io/badge/Framer_Motion-0055FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=framer&logoColor=white)
![Lucide Icons](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lucide_Icons-F56565?style=for-the-badge&logo=feather&logoColor=white)

### Deployment
![GitHub Pages](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub_Pages-222222?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)
![GitHub Actions](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub_Actions-2088FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=github-actions&logoColor=white)

</div>

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
📦 AnderssonProgramming.github.io
├── 📂 .github/
│   └── 📂 workflows/
│       └── 📄 deploy.yml          # GitHub Actions CI/CD
├── 📂 public/
│   └── 🖼️ profile.png             # Profile photo
├── 📂 src/
│   ├── 📂 components/
│   │   ├── 📄 Footer.tsx          # Site footer
│   │   ├── 📄 LanguageSelector.tsx # 🌐 Language dropdown
│   │   ├── 📄 Navbar.tsx          # Navigation bar
│   │   ├── 📄 ProjectCard.tsx     # Project display card
│   │   └── 📄 TechStack.tsx       # Scrolling tech badges
│   ├── 📂 contexts/
│   │   └── 📄 LanguageContext.tsx # i18n context & translations
│   ├── 📂 pages/
│   │   ├── 📄 CV.tsx              # Professional CV page
│   │   └── 📄 Home.tsx            # Landing page
│   ├── 📄 App.tsx                 # Main app component
│   ├── 📄 index.css               # Global styles
│   └── 📄 main.tsx                # Entry point
├── 📄 index.html                  # HTML template
├── 📄 package.json                # Dependencies
├── 📄 tailwind.config.js          # Tailwind configuration
├── 📄 tsconfig.json               # TypeScript config
└── 📄 vite.config.ts              # Vite configuration
```

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18+ 
- **npm** or **yarn**

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/AnderssonProgramming/AnderssonProgramming.github.io.git

# Navigate to the project
cd AnderssonProgramming.github.io

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

### Available Scripts

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | 🔥 Start development server with HMR |
| `npm run build` | 📦 Build for production |
| `npm run preview` | 👀 Preview production build locally |
| `npm run lint` | 🔍 Run ESLint checks |

---

## 🌍 Internationalization (i18n)

The portfolio supports **full bilingual functionality**:

- 🇪🇸 **Spanish** (default)
- 🇺🇸 **English**

### How it works:

1. **LanguageContext** manages the current language state
2. **localStorage** persists the user's language preference
3. Components use the `isEnglish` flag for conditional rendering
4. All translations are centralized in the `en` object

```tsx
const { isEnglish } = useLanguage();

// Usage
<h1>{isEnglish ? en.hero.title : 'Título en Español'}</h1>
```

---

## 📄 CV Features

The CV page includes:

- ✅ **Two-column professional layout**
- ✅ **Print-optimized CSS** (Ctrl+P or Cmd+P)
- ✅ **PDF export ready**
- ✅ **Bilingual content**
- ✅ **Contact information**
- ✅ **Skills with progress bars**
- ✅ **Work experience timeline**
- ✅ **Education history**
- ✅ **Certifications grid**
- ✅ **Hobbies section with icons**
- ✅ **References**

---

## 🎨 Design Features

### Color Palette

| Color | Hex | Usage |
|-------|-----|-------|
| 🔵 Primary Blue | `#3B82F6` | CTAs, links, accents |
| 🟣 Purple Gradient | `#8B5CF6` | Gradient text, highlights |
| ⚫ Dark Background | `#0A0A0F` | Main background |
| ⚪ Gray Text | `#9CA3AF` | Secondary text |

### Animations

- **Fade in up** - Section reveals on scroll
- **Stagger children** - Sequential element animations
- **Gradient text** - Animated color transitions
- **Hover effects** - Scale and glow on interactive elements
- **Infinite scroll** - Tech stack marquee

---

## 📊 Featured Projects

<div align="center">

| Project | Description | Tech |
|---------|-------------|------|
| 🚀 **ECI-Centauri** | AI exoplanet detection (NASA Space Apps Finalist) | React, FastAPI, TensorFlow |
| 🎮 **POOB vs Zombies** | Tower defense game with AI | Java, Swing, Threads |
| 🎓 **Gender Quest** | Educational platform with gamification | Next.js, NestJS, Supabase |
| 📅 **Elysium** | Lab booking system | React, Spring Boot, MongoDB |

</div>

---

## 🚢 Deployment

This project is automatically deployed to **GitHub Pages** using **GitHub Actions**.

### Workflow

1. Push to `main` branch triggers the workflow
2. Dependencies are installed
3. Project is built with Vite
4. Build artifacts are deployed to GitHub Pages

### Live URL

🌐 **[https://anderssonprogramming.github.io](https://anderssonprogramming.github.io)**

---

## 📬 Contact

<div align="center">

[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-anderssondavidsanchez@gmail.com-EA4335?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:anderssondavidsanchez@gmail.com)

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Andersson_Sánchez-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/andersson-david-sánchez-méndez-676b72194)

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-AnderssonProgramming-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/AnderssonProgramming)

</div>

---

## 📝 License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

<div align="center">

### ⭐ If you like this project, give it a star!

Made with ❤️ and ☕ by **Andersson David Sánchez Méndez**

![Visitors](https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=AnderssonProgramming&label=Profile%20Views&color=0e75b6&style=flat)

</div>

Commit message:

docs: update LinkedIn URL and README for CV changes
- Update LinkedIn URL to new format (anderssonssm)

- Update README Preview section (CV Page -> CV PDF)

- Update README CV Features section to reflect PDF download

- Update folder structure in README (remove CV.tsx, add PDF)

LinkedIn updated in: README, Navbar, Footer, Home

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# 🚀 Andersson David Sánchez Méndez

### Full-Stack Developer & Systems Engineering Student

[![Portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/🌐_Portfolio-Live-blue?style=for-the-badge)](https://anderssonprogramming.github.io)
[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Connect-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anderssonssm)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-Follow-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/AnderssonProgramming)

<br/>

<a href="https://git.io/typing-svg"><img src="https://readme-typing-svg.demolab.com?font=Fira+Code&weight=600&size=22&duration=3000&pause=1000&color=3B82F6&center=true&vCenter=true&random=false&width=600&lines=NASA+Space+Apps+Global+Finalist;Full-Stack+Developer;Machine+Learning+Enthusiast" alt="Typing SVG" /></a>

<br/>

![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=flat-square&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=flat-square&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=flat-square&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-646CFF?style=flat-square&logo=vite&logoColor=white)
![Framer Motion](https://img.shields.io/badge/Framer_Motion-0055FF?style=flat-square&logo=framer&logoColor=white)

</div>

---

## ✨ About This Project

This is my **professional portfolio website** — a modern, responsive, and bilingual (Spanish/English) single-page application showcasing my skills, projects, and professional experience. Built with cutting-edge technologies and designed with a sleek, dark theme inspired by industry leaders like Vercel and Netflix.

<div align="center">

### 🏆 Key Highlights

| 🎯 Feature | 📝 Description |
|:---:|:---|
| 🌍 **Bilingual** | Full Spanish/English support with language persistence |
| 📱 **Responsive** | Pixel-perfect on all devices (mobile, tablet, desktop) |
| ⚡ **Fast** | Optimized with Vite for lightning-fast performance |
| 🎨 **Animated** | Smooth animations powered by Framer Motion |
| 📄 **PDF Export** | Professional CV with print-ready styling |
| 🌙 **Dark Theme** | Modern dark UI with gradient accents |

</div>

---

## 🖼️ Preview

<div align="center">

### 🏠 Home Page
*Hero section with gradient text, animated badge, and call-to-action buttons*

### � CV (PDF)
*Professional CV available as downloadable PDF*

### 🌐 Language Selector
*Elegant dropdown with flags for seamless language switching*

</div>

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

<div align="center">

### Frontend
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React_19-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Tailwind CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS_4-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white)

### Build & Tooling
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite_7-646CFF?style=for-the-badge&logo=vite&logoColor=white)
![ESLint](https://img.shields.io/badge/ESLint-4B32C3?style=for-the-badge&logo=eslint&logoColor=white)

### Libraries
![React Router](https://img.shields.io/badge/React_Router-CA4245?style=for-the-badge&logo=react-router&logoColor=white)
![Framer Motion](https://img.shields.io/badge/Framer_Motion-0055FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=framer&logoColor=white)
![Lucide Icons](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lucide_Icons-F56565?style=for-the-badge&logo=feather&logoColor=white)

### Deployment
![GitHub Pages](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub_Pages-222222?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)
![GitHub Actions](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub_Actions-2088FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=github-actions&logoColor=white)

</div>

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
📦 AnderssonProgramming.github.io
├── 📂 .github/
│   └── 📂 workflows/
│       └── 📄 deploy.yml          # GitHub Actions CI/CD
├── 📂 public/
│   ├── 🖼️ profile.png             # Profile photo
│   └── 📄 CV - ANDERSSON D SANCHEZ M.pdf # Professional CV
├── 📂 src/
│   ├── 📂 components/
│   │   ├── 📄 Footer.tsx          # Site footer
│   │   ├── 📄 LanguageSelector.tsx # 🌐 Language dropdown
│   │   ├── 📄 Navbar.tsx          # Navigation bar
│   │   ├── 📄 ProjectCard.tsx     # Project display card
│   │   └── 📄 TechStack.tsx       # Scrolling tech badges
│   ├── 📂 contexts/
│   │   └── 📄 LanguageContext.tsx # i18n context & translations
│   ├── 📂 pages/
│   │   └── 📄 Home.tsx            # Landing page
│   ├── 📄 App.tsx                 # Main app component
│   ├── 📄 index.css               # Global styles
│   └── 📄 main.tsx                # Entry point
├── 📄 index.html                  # HTML template
├── 📄 package.json                # Dependencies
├── 📄 tailwind.config.js          # Tailwind configuration
├── 📄 tsconfig.json               # TypeScript config
└── 📄 vite.config.ts              # Vite configuration
```

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18+ 
- **npm** or **yarn**

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/AnderssonProgramming/AnderssonProgramming.github.io.git

# Navigate to the project
cd AnderssonProgramming.github.io

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

### Available Scripts

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | 🔥 Start development server with HMR |
| `npm run build` | 📦 Build for production |
| `npm run preview` | 👀 Preview production build locally |
| `npm run lint` | 🔍 Run ESLint checks |

---

## 🌍 Internationalization (i18n)

The portfolio supports **full bilingual functionality**:

- 🇪🇸 **Spanish** (default)
- 🇺🇸 **English**

### How it works:

1. **LanguageContext** manages the current language state
2. **localStorage** persists the user's language preference
3. Components use the `isEnglish` flag for conditional rendering
4. All translations are centralized in the `en` object

```tsx
const { isEnglish } = useLanguage();

// Usage
<h1>{isEnglish ? en.hero.title : 'Título en Español'}</h1>
```

---

## 📄 CV / Resume

The CV is available as a **downloadable PDF** that opens in a new tab:

- ✅ **Professional PDF format**
- ✅ **Direct download/view in browser**
- ✅ **Print-ready layout**
- ✅ **Bilingual access from nav buttons**

---

## 🎨 Design Features

### Color Palette

| Color | Hex | Usage |
|-------|-----|-------|
| 🔵 Primary Blue | `#3B82F6` | CTAs, links, accents |
| 🟣 Purple Gradient | `#8B5CF6` | Gradient text, highlights |
| ⚫ Dark Background | `#0A0A0F` | Main background |
| ⚪ Gray Text | `#9CA3AF` | Secondary text |

### Animations

- **Fade in up** - Section reveals on scroll
- **Stagger children** - Sequential element animations
- **Gradient text** - Animated color transitions
- **Hover effects** - Scale and glow on interactive elements
- **Infinite scroll** - Tech stack marquee

---

## 📊 Featured Projects

<div align="center">

| Project | Description | Tech |
|---------|-------------|------|
| 🚀 **ECI-Centauri** | AI exoplanet detection (NASA Space Apps Finalist) | React, FastAPI, TensorFlow |
| 🎮 **POOB vs Zombies** | Tower defense game with AI | Java, Swing, Threads |
| 🎓 **Gender Quest** | Educational platform with gamification | Next.js, NestJS, Supabase |
| 📅 **Elysium** | Lab booking system | React, Spring Boot, MongoDB |

</div>

---

## 🚢 Deployment

This project is automatically deployed to **GitHub Pages** using **GitHub Actions**.

### Workflow

1. Push to `main` branch triggers the workflow
2. Dependencies are installed
3. Project is built with Vite
4. Build artifacts are deployed to GitHub Pages

### Live URL

🌐 **[https://anderssonprogramming.github.io](https://anderssonprogramming.github.io)**

---

## 📬 Contact

<div align="center">

[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-anderssondavidsanchez@gmail.com-EA4335?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:anderssondavidsanchez@gmail.com)

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Andersson_Sánchez-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anderssonssm)

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-AnderssonProgramming-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/AnderssonProgramming)

</div>

---

## 📝 License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

<div align="center">

### ⭐ If you like this project, give it a star!

Made with ❤️ and ☕ by **Andersson David Sánchez Méndez**

![Visitors](https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=AnderssonProgramming&label=Profile%20Views&color=0e75b6&style=flat)

</div>
